.TH FRONTIER 1 "2026-05-02" "smartmet-frontier" "SmartMet Tools"
.SH NAME
frontier \- render Weather Object Model files as SVG charts
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B frontier
.RI [ options ]
.B \-w
.I womlfile
.B \-s
.I svgtemplate
.RB [ \-p
.IR projection ]
.RB [ \-o
.IR outfile ]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B frontier
reads a Weather Object Model
.RB ( WOML )
file produced by the SmartMet Mirwa weather chart editor and renders
it into a styled SVG weather chart. Output uses the supplied SVG
template; meteorological symbols, fronts and other features defined in
the WOML document are placed on top of the template's base map.
.PP
Three document types are supported:
.IR conceptualmodelanalysis ,
.IR conceptualmodelforecast ,
and
.IR aerodromeforecast .
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-h ", " \-\-help
Print the help message.
.TP
.B \-V ", " \-\-version
Display the version number.
.TP
.B \-v ", " \-\-verbose
Verbose mode.
.TP
.B \-q ", " \-\-quiet
Quiet mode.
.TP
.B \-d ", " \-\-debug
Debug mode.
.TP
.BI \-w " file" ", \-\-woml " file
Input WOML file.
.TP
.BI \-s " file" ", \-\-svg " file
SVG template file.
.TP
.BI \-p " spec" ", \-\-proj " spec
Projection description string or a file containing one.
.TP
.BI \-o " file" ", \-\-outfile " file
Output filename. Default is
.B \-
(standard output).
.TP
.BI \-t " type" ", \-\-type " type
Document type: one of
.IR conceptualmodelanalysis ,
.IR conceptualmodelforecast ,
.IR aerodromeforecast .
.TP
.BI \-l " locale" ", \-\-locale " locale
Locale for text rendering.
.TP
.B \-n ", " \-\-nocontours
Deprecated; has no effect.
.SH EXAMPLES
Render an analysis chart to a file:
.PP
.RS 4
frontier \-w analysis.xml \-s template.svg \-t conceptualmodelanalysis \-o chart.svg
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR qdcontour2 (1),
.BR shape2svg (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Finnish Meteorological Institute
.PP
Report issues at <https://github.com/fmidev/smartmet-frontier/issues>.
